---
layout: post
title: "Two of me?"
exclude: true
---

This happens to me all the time, I start out in one direction with something, then change directions with that something, or perhaps pick up another something, and then I'm left running around with my arms full of balls. Then what am I supposed to do with all of these balls? I certainly can't free up both arms and start juggling them, not without dropping everything anyway. Maybe, just maybe, I could get one arm free, but then what do I do, set the balls on a shelf? Do you know what happens when you put round objects on flat surfaces? I'll tell you, the damn things roll away. And of course, they don't just roll away, inevitably they roll underneath something, behind something else, or perhaps down a flight of stairs for you to forget about and then trip over later.

Okay, I think I feel a bit better now. Still as overwhelmed as I started out, but better for having made someone to listen to my problems. Now, what to do about it.

I'm sure if I went back I'd find that some 4 to 6 months ago I posted something similar, perhaps about just getting over it and just getting started with something, but I don't feel much like doing all that. What I want to say is this, sometimes when you get all caught up in the excitement of being productive you go and find yourself taking on a tiny bit too much. That's what I'm doing now, but I don't think I want to set any balls down just yet, lest I risk losing them under the fridge.

So what all am I talking about?

I've been working with, quite extensively in fact, Microsoft's MVC framework. Now, I'm not an expert by any means, but I'm starting to feel rather comfortable with the meat of it. Initially I had planned to start a pet project at home, since my primary dealings with it are because of work, and perhaps try and stand up a service delivery application and maybe even make myself some money from it. The problem is, when I start working on my own personal project, it starts feeling a bit too much like I'm back in the office to me, and if I'm gonna feel that way, why not just put in a few extra hours for work and make myself some extra cash?

Enter, resurrected from somewhere, I have no idea from where, Ruby on Rails. It had been about a year or so since I looked at a single line of Ruby code, up until I came across a blog post a few weeks back that came up as part of a Google search, and there it was, a code snippet straight out of a Rails controller. Well, you can just imagine that led me to remembering that Rails 3 had only just recently been released, and once again whetted my appetite for Rails development. So, back I am again trying to relearn everything once again.

Wow, this post feels like it reads as chaotically as the thoughts in my head are. Now, does that even make sense? Forget it. Anyway, coming soon will hopefully be some posts about a few pet projects of mine that I don't have any intention of charging for, because I don't think anybody other than myself will ever use them. That's okay though, I'm going to share them with whomever anyway, because I feel like I should create more digital clutter on the web for all to ignore. I'll leave you with my delightfully creative project names for now: barf and slauth.

Thanks as always for listening!