---
layout: post
title: My New Crappy Cell Phone
exclude: true
published: false
---

Some quick background information here. About 20 months ago now when the Motorola Cliq, first generation, was hitting the market, I feel in love with the phone from the advertisements. After the first 2 months or so though, I started to realize what a piece of junk it really was. The MotoBlur software would seem to provide some great functionality, but I've come to think of it as bloat-ware, and wish Motorola had gone for a more purist Android experience. Needless to say the phone would hang frequently, and I'd have to wait for it to decide when I could place a call, or update my social network statuses.

So okay, I was out the other day, which probably wasn't a good idea to begin with since it was a school night, and I was trying to place a phone call. Like I said, this phone was a real piece of garbage, and it didn't want to display the full contact details for a friend of mine, so I consequently was not able to make that call. Rather than remain composed, as I've been forced to do many times in the past when my phone chose to do this, I snapped. The next thing I know the phone is flying, with some force mind you, out of my hand and headed at the sidewalk. Well, it didn't survive the encounter. At first I actually felt quite liberated, but then the reality of having to buy a new phone started to set in, and I started thinking about the money I'd have to spend replacing it through the insurance plan, which is about $130, or buying a new phone altogether.

After a weekend worth of sleeping on it, having already found my new dream phone but only to find out it is out of stock pretty much everywhere, I decided to go a different route. I had previously posted about trying to go cell phone free, but I've forced myself into the realization that that might not at all practical. So instead of doing that, I did the next best thing. I went out and got the cheapest phone that T-Mobile currently has to offer, and the phone sucks. That's okay with me though, since I was able to drop another $15 a month off my plan by switching to the lowest possible data plan (which I apparently have to have because I bought the Motorola Cliq at a discounted rate with the hidden requirement that I maintain a data plan for the full term of my contract, but at least that is down from $30 a month). I have to live with this phone for at least 5 months, but I'm really hoping I can go a bit longer with it. About a month ago I went out and purchased an iPod Touch, which I'm trying to use as a smart device, and will continue to use in lieu of a smart phone. After 5 months I should be able to further reduce the plan on my phone and then begin to realize savings of $30 to $50 per month.