---
layout: post
title: People are Crazy
---

Right now it's about 38 degrees outside here in the Raleigh, North Carolina area and I just got back from the pool hall. As I'm driving down I40 I pass a car off the side of the road, parked, with its hazard lights on. About a quarer file farther down the road I see a guy running. My suspicion is that he ran out of gas and in order to stay warm, or perhaps to get things done a bit faster, he decided to run. Now, I felt bad for the guy, but I didn't stop, and that got me to thinking.

I do have to get this out of the way first though. We were both heading westbound, and he had stopped about, let's say 3/4 of a mile past an exit. Remember though I said I past the car, and then I passed him. Now I don't know if he just wasn't familiar with the area or what, but the next exit is about 3 miles down from where I past him running. Wouldn't you go with the guaranteed exit behind you rather than taking the chance running forward?

That wasn't the eye opener though. About 10 years ago, on Christmas day in fact which might have been a contributing factor to why I stopped, but on that day I past another distressed vehicle and I did stop. Now though I'm not only thinking "Hey, this guy might be some kind of mass murderer", but I'm also thinking, "If I pick this guy up to bring him to the gas station and I end up hitting a curb or something, is he gonna sue my ass?". What is that? Everything just seems to backwards anymore. I heard on the radio the other day that Muslims attending a Catholic university are going after that university because they don't have a cross free enviornment in which to pray. What are these people doing going to a Catholic (should I be capitalizing the names of religions?) schools in the first place? Maybe I'm missing something in the lawsuit here, but if I'm not I sure hope to heck they don't win.

Making a long story short here though... what happened to common sense and just overall decency? I'm kinda feeling like my quality of life is diminished because of all this. I don't like reading or listening to the news anymore because it depresses me. I can't help a guy out whose car has broken down which makes me feel like a bad human being because I'm worried he might sue me for something.

One more story to share. I was in some crowded area, a shopping center of some sort I think, and this lady wasn't paying attention to her child. Her child starts taking off, and I feel like I should stop the kid from running away because I know the lady won't be able to hear me yelling at her through the crowd, but I don't want to touch the kid because someone might think I'm some sort of pedophile, or heaven forbid the kid should fall down and scrape his knee. It's just crazy out that anymore, that's all I'm saying.