---
layout: post
title: Moving Time Again
---

I've been trying to think of ways to cut expenses. The overall plan is to try and completely eliminate my debt in the next 3 to 5 years, which means paying off or trading in my car, eliminating my last remaining credit card debt, and then paying off those damn student loans. I'm also a fan of the minimalist blog over at [http://mnmlist.com](http://mnmlist.com/), so basically I'm hoping a lifestyle change to living more minimally will help me to accomplish this.

So why move? A few reasons. Well for starters, I'm now a full-time employee with the company I have been on contract with for the past 13 months, and I would like to reduce my 35 mile commute. Yep, I'll save money on gas! I'm also paying for the convenience of living in Raleigh, which brings much higher rental prices then what they would be if I were to move to the Mebane or Hillsborough area. The apartment I'm in is a somewhere around a 1,200 square foot 2 bedroom, 2 bath, which considering the fact it's just me leaving here, is overkill. I'm trying to convince myself that a 1 bedroom would make more sense, I'm just not sure I'll be able to pass up another 2 bedroom unit if the additional cost is less than $100 per month, and I can still save somewhere in the neighborhood of $400 a month over what I am paying today.

So I've been giving the move a lot of thought. One conclusion I have reached is that moving is a real pain. I have  until April 2nd to file the paperwork with my current rental community that I intend to vacate at the end of my lease which is May 31st. At this point though I'm 90% committed to the move. Of course that means packing everything up, including the furniture, yet again, which I am really not looking forward to. Moving the smaller stuff really isn't an issue, but I'm not sure I want to go through the hassle of moving the furniture. So for that reason, I'm considering a moving sale, whereby I try and sell off all the furniture I have, and then buying furniture better suited for the new apartment. The only problem with that is the additional costs of the new furniture, and what that means for my first year savings.

Does anybody have any advice? Am I going overboard?