---
layout: post
title: "BDD in .Net"
category : lessons
published: true
---

## Naming is Aweful

One of my only real complaints with the out of the box unit testing framework from Microsoft is how you "describe" your tests. If you've read Roy Osherove's book his proposed naming convention is something like "MethodUnderTest_Scenario_ExpectedResult" which I thought was just great and I started running with it. What I found though is with that convention I can't be nearly expressive enough, so I decided I'd try something else. So how about this here, "when_a_user_is_an_admin_they_have_permissions", that looks good, doesn't it? Most certainly not! And this isn't one iota better, "WhenAUserIsAnAdminTheyHavePermissions". Do you know what a pain that is to type? So yes, what's in a name indeed.

## Open Source Envy

The programming languages and frameworks out there like Ruby and Node have the opposite problem, they have so many tools out there that allow programmers to be as expressive as they please. Two of the big ones that come to mind for me are Cucumber and Mocha respectively. Oh what a wonderful life it must be to be one of those programmers.

Kidding aside there, a few months ago I was playing around with Node and had need to code up some unit tests, so I went searching for a a library, and that's when I found Mocha. Here is a quick example of how you might define your tests for Mocha.

{% highlight javascript %}
describe("schema builder", function() {
  var db = mapper.init("mysql", connString, schemaBuilder.schema);

  it("should fetch all relationships", function() {
    assert.equal(2, db.getRelationships("customers", ["addresses", "profile"]).length);
  });

  it("should fetch a relationship", function() {
    assert.equal("manymany", db.getRelationship("customers", "addresses").type);
  });
});
{% endhighlight %}

Isn't that beautiful!

## Sometimes You've Got To Build It Yourself

Maybe I didn't have to, but here is a quick rundown of what happened.

I wanted to try and find something very much like Mocha for .NET, so I went on a search. One of the possibilities that popped up was [SpecFlow](http://www.specflow.org/specflownew/), and I've looked at their site a few times in passing, but I can't seem to get past their homepage and this image that communicates to me this hellish world where indentation is all of a sudden important, as if I were an RPG programmer or something. So, I run scared, each and every time.

[NSpec](http://nspec.org/), another such tool, actually looks pretty slick. The only problem is that by the time I stumbled upon that one I'd already written some code to try and fill the gap myself.

## LiteBdd

First, this isn't a complete project, just the result of a few hours of coding. I've setup a [repository over at GitHub](https://github.com/bteller/LiteBdd) for this because there really are some neat things that might be done with it, but in the meantime here is some code.

It really all boils down to this code here, which defines a spec.

{% highlight csharp %}
public class PersonSpec : Spec
{
    public override void Define()
    {
        Describe("person", () =>
        {
            Describe("that is small", () =>
            {
                It("eats a lot", () =>
                {
                    ExpectEquality("one", "one");
                });

                It("cries a lot", () =>
                {
                    ExpectEquality("a", "a");
                });

                It("needs a hug", () =>
                {
                    ExpectEquality("true", "true");
                });
            });

            Describe("that is tall", () =>
            {
                It("eats horses", () => { ExpectEquality("yes", "yes"); });
            });
        });
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

As you can see we've defined a class that inherits from Spec, which is responsible for the magic. There is also a SpecRunner with the assumption being that if you have multiple test lists you'd want to execute you would define as few or as many of these as you want.

{% highlight csharp %}
var runner = new SpecRunner(new List<Spec>
{
    new PersonSpec()
});
runner.Run();
{% endhighlight %}

I was going to write up a runner and really spruce this up, but that seemed a little outside the scope of this little project. So that is really all there is to it.

Like I said, this isn't a finished product, or even really a started project, but hopefully it gets you thinking. If you don't want to abandon the built in tests completely then at least do yourself a favor and be aware that you don't have to Assert yourself to death and take a look at things like [FluentValidation](http://fluentvalidation.codeplex.com/).

Happy Testing!