---
layout: post
title: Thinking Minimally
exclude: true
published: false
---

Okay, real quick before I get into this. I think my greatest problem with posting is that I either don't think what I have to say is worth the post even though I know I shouldn't think that way, and the other problem is that whenever I do get inspired to post it is never at a convenient time. So, I said my part on that.

So why this post then. Tonight I was a little bored, and was thinking back to when I got really irritated with my phone earlier in the day. The phone is a first generation Motorola Cliq from T-Mobile, and it's a little slow at times. Now anybody that knows me might comment that I'm not generally the most patient person in the world, so this can create some problems. So, to kill time, I started looking at the T-Mobile site to see what new phones they have out there. I've personally had my eye on a G2, so I wanted to see what the price would be to me if I upgraded. Long story short, it's around $300.

Well, I resisted the urge to buy the phone 4 hours ago, and preoccupied myself with other things, but most recently cleaning old code and other files off of my computer (I still haven't pulled them out of Subversion yet, but I think I have to rethink my repository structure before I do anything drastic there). While I was cleaning up my computer, and as part of it my desktop, I started thinking about how I wanted to try and start leading a more minimalistic lifestyle. Some of the purchases I have made lately don't exactly fit in with that lifestyle, but a man has to start sometime, right? Well anyway, that got me to thinking that I don't really need this new phone at all. After all, what am I using the phone for? I generally spend less than 200 minutes on my mobile in any given month, I do text from it, and then I use some of the Android apps, but really only because I can. Let's be truthful here, would anybody care if I couldn't tell you I was out shooting pool while in the pool hall, and do so from my phone?

So what do I do now? In the case of the phone I'm thinking that what I may actually do is find out if I can reduce my phone to a plan with 500 minutes of talk time, and maybe unlimited text messaging. I can't exactly do that with this phone, so I would have to buy another, but I'm hoping I could pick up something with a full QWERTY keyboard for very cheap. Then I can drop my monthly mobile bill from about $115 a month to hopefully somewhere around $40 per month. So, the first month should allow me to recoup the expense of the new phone.

I haven't exactly had time to rethink other aspects of my life where I can be more minimalistic, but I'll get there. The only notable change I have made is to cancel cable all together. I still have a cable internet connection, and I don't see that ever changing, but I don't pay $60 per month for programming I don't need. Instead I subscribe to Hulu Plus and pay $8 per month. I have that hooked up to a 27" HD TV that I've had for 5 years now, and will not replace until the thing dies. I had to buy an internet ready blu-ray player for the Hulu Plus app which set me back about $300, and I only had to do that because wonderful appliances like [Roku](http://www.roku.com/) were not available when I made this switch (or perhaps I just wasn't aware of them.

Hopefully soon I'll start making some of these other changes. I've already got a list of items to put up for sale somewhere. I'm also going to move out of my apartment in about 6 months time, a 2 bedroom that I pay too much in rent for, into a 1 bedroom with the hopes of saving myself about $350 per month in rent.